## Useful Textbook References

*By Elizabeth Monte*



This document lists textbooks that I have found to be useful references for computational multiphysics. 



****



**Applied Mathematics and Modelling for Chemical Engineers - Rice and Do**

*Chapter 8*

Nasser used to use this textbook for NE 336. Chapter 8 of this textbook is a good reference for the method of weighted residuals. It's a good starting point for understanding FEM and for understanding the similarities and differences between FVM and FEM.



**Transport Phenomena - Bird, Stewart, and Lightfoot**

*Entire Book*

Nasser uses this textbook for CHE 601. This textbook is an excellent reference for the underlying physics of CFD, but it is not an easy read. I would recommend your first reading either be as part of CHE 601 or otherwise guided by Nasser. The group usually refers to this textbook as BSL.



**Scaling Analysis in Modelling Transport and Reaction Processes - Krantz**

*Chapters 1-2*

Nasser uses this textbook for CHE 601. Chapters 1 and 2 are a must-read if you aren't already familiar with scaling analysis. The rest of the textbook is a nice reference for more complicated models.



**Introduction to Continuum Mechanics - Lai, Krempl, and Ruben**

*Chapters 1-3*

Nasser used to use this textbook for NE 318. I personally think it does a better job explaining the difference between the material and spatial frames than BSL (chapter 3). Chapter 3 also covers rigid body motion if you are unfamiliar with it. Chapter 2 is a good resource for learning about tensors but, in my opinion, the BSL appendices are a better reference for tensor identities if you already understand tensors.



**Computer Methods for Ordinary Differential Equations and Differential-Algebraic Equations - Ascher and Petzold**

*Entire Book*

Nasser likes this as a general reference for numerical methods. If you already have a decent background in numerical methods it's a good reference to refresh your knowledge of specific concepts.



**Numerical Methods for Engineers and Scientists - Hoffman**

*Entire Book*

Pendar uses this textbook for NE 336. It covers a lot of the same material as the textbook by Ascher and Petzold but has better practice problems. I would recommend this as a starting point for learning numerical methods if you have no prior exposure.



**Finite Elements and Fast Iterative Solvers - Elman, Silvester, and Wathen**

*Chapters 1-2*

James likes this book for a technical background on FEM (I believe Sander recommended it). It is rather math heavy though, so I wouldn't recommend it as your first exposure to FEM. I recommend going through chapters 1 and 2 (skipping the proofs) and then reading the remaining chapters only if you have specific questions about those models.



**The Finite Element Method: Theory, Implementation, and Applications - Larson and Bengzon**

*Entire Book*

I've only used this textbook as a reference for FEM, I haven't actually read the whole thing. That said, I think it gives a good technical introduction to FEM without being as math-heavy as the Elman textbook. It also discusses DG (chapter 14) although at a fairly technical level.



**Computational Fluid Dynamics: A Practical Approach - Tu, Yeoh, and Liu**

*Entire Book*

This is a good reference to skim if you have no experience with CFD. It gives a good high level introduction to how CFD works and a practical CFD workflow. Don't bother reading this if you already have experience running simulations.



**Turbulence Modelling for CFD - Wilcox**

*Chapters 2, 4.2*

This is the only textbook on turbulence that I find comprehensible. I think it does a good job of explaining the physical meaning of various turbulence models and closures. Chapter 2 is useful for understanding Reynolds-averaging and chapter 4.2 goes over $k-\omega$ and $k-\epsilon$, which are probably the only turbulence models you will use.



**Computational Methods for Fluid Dynamics - Ferziger and Peric**

*Entire Book*

This is a good general reference for FVM. Chapter 5 also gives a good explanation of how the systems of equations generated by FDM, FVM, or FEM can actually be solved.



**An Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics - Versteeg and Malalasekera**

*Chapter 5.4*

This is my preferred textbook for learning FVM. It is very readable and gives nice examples that are easy to try yourself. Even if you are not working with FVM I highly recommend reading chapter 5.4 to understand how the numerical properties of different discretization schemes affect their practical usage and performance.



**Fundamentals of Multiphase Flow - Brennen**

*Entire Book*

This is the textbook Mehrdad used to derive his two-fluid model. I haven't personally read much of the textbook, but Nasser and Mehrdad both like it. If you will be working with multiphase flows I suggest asking Nasser which chapters are worth reading.



**Clean Code - Martin**

*Entire Book*

I believe this is one of the bibles of software design. It's a good read for someone who has no official training in software development.





